From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
all weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists and Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announced
some show number three 85
recorded live Thursday, August 8th, 2013. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Teluride offering the best
in developer tools and support
online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklin.net makers of gesture pack
a powerful gesture, recording and
recognition system for Microsoft connect
for windows developers details. Add
gesture, PA k.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with open
source developer, John Linaro about
the no SQL movement and
couch DB. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
on the Skype right now,
I've got Yon, lean art
from Berlin, Germany. How are
you? Hey, I'm fine. How
are you? I'm very well.
Thanks for waking up with
me this morning. I'm up
at midnight and you're up
at eight. That's lovely. That's
not my time, but I'm
happy to be on the
show. That's great. You're known
in open source spaces. You've
done a mustache and a
couch DB, which is what
I'm interested in talking to
you about. Yep. So no
SQL. This is like the
hot thing that everyone talks
about, but I think people
who are listening to the
show and myself included are
used to like kind of
classic SQL databases, entity, relationship
diagrams, spending lots of time
looking at looking at designing
schema. This is a whole
different way of thinking about
it. It's the exact opposite.
Isn't it of a relational
database, the aspect you mentioned
with no SQL, definitely that
that people can be freer
and doing software rather than
planning it. Then, then maybe
doing it later when the
plan got approved or whatever,
depending on a specific attribute
to know, SQL tends to
be very hard. So it
can be about scaling, about
ease of use about the
schema business that you mentioned.
And there's all sorts of
other stuff that knows SQL
is known for. It's kind
of like a big hodgepodge
of things, but yeah, the,
it requires some rethinking of
what you may have learned
in university or on the
job. Is it a, is
it a matter of taking
characteristics that we think of
in a classic SQL or
relational database and just doing
the opposite or what are
some characteristics of no SQL
databases? It's more like going
back to the fundamentals of
data storage. So all, all
major databases work the same
way that some tree data
structure, you like data structure
for main data storage and
indexes, and then some, maybe
some hashes for specific purposes.
And then, then those skills
database on SQL databases just
take the same underlying technology
and put it together in
different ways. So there, there
isn't anything new and no
SQL maybe, but, but the,
the putting things together in
a, in a more specific
way, and maybe introducing a
bit of distributed systems thinking
into how to larger, larger
databases that then fit in
the single machine, but the
underlying technologies is basically the
same. So it's not all
too different for me, but
like I've been at it
for a couple of years
now. Well, when you say
that the underlying technology is
the same, you're saying that
things like indexes and record
retrieval, that those concepts are
still fundamentally there. Yeah. So,
I mean, I'm, I'm pushing
data to it. I'm doing
inserts. I'm, I've got indexes.
I have views, you know,
data is still data. Four
loops are still four loops,
of course. Right? Yeah. That,
that is, that is basically
it. And then the, the
difference is that maybe on
the, on the insertion, in
this, in the SQL databases,
this, the SQL database will
look up the table structure
and then enforce the particular
schema and a NoSQL database
may just take the data
you have and store it
as adjacent block, but that's
not, not any different from
storing and change and evolve
into a large data structure
in the regular database. Right.
But if I took a
Jason blob and threw it
into a column in a
standard SQL database, I wouldn't
be able to query what's
inside that, you know, it
would become this opaque bunch
of bytes. Right. And then
SQL databases. Don't like doing
that too, because it's Unbound
and its size and SQL
databases seem to like their
slices nicely paid. Yeah, that
was correct. And yeah, there's,
there's a bunch of like
optimizations that if you're you're
you can do, if you
have very, very sliced, very
I'm very record oriented. And
then there's the orthogonal version,
like the verticals of the
world, which are the common
databases, which slice just the
other way, which is probably
a fallen or something. And
then, and the notes equal.
Well, we tend to not
worry too much about that
because if you introduce this
idea of scale, the individual
single query performance may, may
matter less than the overall
system throughput. So if you
have a thousand machines running
a single database, making sure
that they all respond to
the request in a reasonable
amount of time, that's still
fast enough for the user.
That's good enough then squeezing
the loss microseconds out of
a single query. That's Interesting
because I, I know that
when dealing with classic kind
of SQL server and I
come from the Microsoft SQL
server world, but I've also
done work on DB too.
And I've done work on
Oracle databases, scaling up is
always easy. You know, going
from one to four to
eight to 16 processors is
what SQL databases and SQL
database administrators like to do,
throw a memory at it,
throw a processor at it.
But you're saying that in
the no SQL world, that
chopping things up and scaling
out rather than up is
more appropriate. Yeah. There's definitely
A bunch of databases in
the no SQL wealth fed
are based around the idea
that you can just throw
more hardware in terms of
more machines at the problem.
So if I were going
to do the kind of
the standard, make a table
of people, how do I
store people? Do I create
a table and create columns
and give those columns data
to, Okay. And that, that,
that one. Now we need
to look at what specific
NoSQL database you're looking at.
The there are different versions,
the one I'm working on
the couch, and then other
ones have the same idea.
You just have a record
just to do some blog.
That is the contents of
the data that you want
to store. That is name
first name, last name, age
address, or whatever you want.
And you just saw that
into the database. And that
may or may not be
schema enforcement there. If you
have other databases say like,
cause I know you want
to have some ideas about
the types you're going to
be storing cause the system's
going to do stuff with
them. So this is where
the term knows Guild breaks
up a little bit. You
need to look at the
specific database you're storing data
with. Okay. So let's talk
about couch DB. Can I
just throw it some Jason,
it looks like a person
and it'll just say, all
right, well, that's a person
I'll hang onto this for
you for later Comes to
be a little extra to
just say, Oh, that looks
like Villa Jason. I'll hang
on to that for you.
And it'll give you a
key back and then you
can use that key later
for retrieval. And then on
top of that, you can
also create indexes for the
specific, specific properties of that
Jason block. So if you
want to look up people
by first name or last
name or age or something
like that, you can create
secondary indexes to retrieve that
data as well in a
more query, like way Now,
when I'm doing things to
two SQL servers or Oracles
and things like that, they
all have a, a, a
socket that they open and
they have some magical binary
format. Am I speaking some
secret format or am I
just posting Jason to an
HTTPS? That is exactly it.
Couch TV is all built
around the web and web
standards. So it speaks all
HTP Andrei song. And you
don't need any special software
to use it like curl
or browser will do. Like
in fact, the, the admin
interface of couch TV is
just like a web app
that uses XHR to talk
to catch DB. There isn't
any middleware that does anything
fancy. Hmm. So I could
write my own if I
wanted to. I mean, it's
just, it's just a web
service out there in the
world. Yeah. That's, that's one
of the pains of coach
Jimmy's existence. We kind of
decided not to write client
libraries because you don't actually
need client libraries. So the
first thing everyone does is
try to catch the client
library for their needs. So
there are a million of
them that just do that
thing they need, but none
of them do everything everyone
needs and that's kind of
an issue, but it's also
fun that people just write
the client libraries because it's
so damn easy. Interesting. That's
actually the next question was
like, okay, I'm a, like,
I'm a.net programmer. And I'm
thinking I want to start
doing work in, in couch
DB. Should I go on
hunt? I mean, I would
naturally go hunting for the
official.net client library and it
just doesn't exist. Well, there
there's like, I'm going to
say we can, everybody's going
to hate me because these
are awful, but we're collecting
these. And then a bit
of a natural selection going
on. Then the better ones
tend to pop up to
be on the top of
the list on the Wiki.
So that was some hunting
that you can do and
reuse of code. You can
just get into for easiness,
but then like there, if
they're good, they're really thin
layer on top of couch
anyway. So if you want
to learn couch, it's probably
easiest to just ride your
own and just keep going
with it. But if you
just want to get stuff
done, you skip that and
take one of the existing
ones. Sorry. It's definitely a
database where I need to
love the web. Yeah. But
you should love the web
anyway. Okay. So I've got
my person and my first
name and my age and
all those kinds of things.
How do I go and
say, well, give me all
the people with the first
name that starts with S
All right. So here's, here's
the thing. That's, that's the
most tricky to explain the
couch to the, I guess
the, the way we do
querying is a bit obscure,
but it, it works quite
nicely. We're using a procedure
called MapReduce and now everybody
runs away screaming again, which
requires you to write some
Java script, which if you're
done that programmer, it's probably
not your favorite thing to
do, but you can still
do. And then manage. Usually
the code required to be
written as really tiny, just
a couple of lines of
code. So basically all you
do is write a function
that gets applied to all
your records. And all it
needs to do is admit
or return the data that
you want to be in
the index. So for, if
you want to have the
first, the first character you
said with the last name,
right? So, so you just
met or returned the last
name from that function. And
then you get an index
by last name, and then
you can do a sub
query on that, on that
query time was just like,
give me everyone that starts
with a T. So I
would make a function that
takes a doc and I
would do whatever I want
to within there in this
case say, you know, if,
and then go off looking
at index of, Oh, so
you wouldn't in the, in
the map function, you wouldn't
look for you wouldn't program
your query details as like
extract the first character of
it, maybe, but maybe you
want to have an index
by last name. And then
there is like indexing time
of the query time. So
at query time we created
it and I was sorry
at the next time to
create an index. So we
put all the last names
into a data structure that's
really efficient to look at.
And then at query time,
we can say within that
data structure, give me a
subset of the, of the
rows there. And then you
can say, just give me
everything that starts with a
T, but everything that's in
between starting with a T
and starting with S excluding
the ones that stopped with
an S. So that's everything
with a T, but at
the same index can also
answer it. Just give me
everything by last name. I
see. So if I understand
correctly, hence it's MapReduce first,
I decide what are the
records? I want to map
this on top of, and
then I reduced the results.
So I would go in
almost like I'm getting a
view model, not the actual
data, but have a view
on that data. Yeah. Of
last names. That's one function,
the map function. Right. Ignore,
reduce for now, I think
too much for a half
hour. Okay. But then I
query that resulting. Yeah, exactly.
And these mechanisms called views
and country V so that's
very fitting. Hmm. And would
that be familiar to MVC
people or is that just
a coincidence that it's called
a view? That's a different
kind of view. Okay. Yeah.
Okay. And so this, this
emit function, this is a,
this is a fundamental built
in function that takes this
key value pair. Yeah. And
the key is, is some
arbitrary key, or is it
a meaningful, Natural key? It
is whatever you want it
to be. We usually use,
at least for the secondary
nexus use some natural data,
like the last name, the
age, the street, or whatever
you need to be unique.
It does not have to
be unique. In fact, there
is no unique constraint even
possible on the secondary nexus,
which is a bit of
a limit, but yeah, we'll
maybe have to fix that
some time later. Well, actually,
speaking of limits, one of
the things that you say,
it just a couple of
chapters into one of the,
you know, what's the deal
with couch DB wikis is
that there are some limits
that will initially make newcomers
feel that it's inflexible, but
then after some, some work
you go, ah, I see
why you did that. That's
a useful limit. So what
is something that would turn
me off and immediately make
me think this is so
inflexible, but it makes it
possible, Right? So the, this
is what we maybe talk
about the reduce a little
bit. If you want to
get score somebody like you
have games and people have
scores, and then you want
to find out who has
got the highest score, right?
So you can use the
map and the reduced to
compute the score of everyone,
but you can't sort by
the score anymore. That will
be a chain men produce.
And we currently don't support
that because very fast access
to a change map produce
like an OLT piece that
access to chain MapReduce isn't
really possible because you need
a tabled skin style computation
of, of that results. So
what types of it gives
you is a list of
all the scores, but you
need to sort them in
whichever way you need on
the client application, which may
seem very inflexible and very
silly, but it allows countries
to be, to be deployed
on multiple machines and guarantee
fast response times at all
times. Whereas with other systems,
you will get into a
situation. If there's a lot
of data on that kind
of query, you need to
bump some buffer or run
into some other, other like
memory issues and country, but
just give them it. Doesn't
give you that feature to
like, should just shoot yourself
in the foot. So in
a, in a kind of
a classic SQL database, you,
you would find out later
that something was a table
scan, you'd do some profiling
and you'd go, wow. Why,
why is that so slow?
Oh, that turned in that
query turned into a table
scan, and then you have
to go off and figure
out why that reduced into
a table scan. You're saying
that couch CP simply won't
allow you to, to get
yourself in that situation. Right?
Yeah. I think we, for
the most part, all the
features in country B are
built in a way that
don't come haunting later. But
then that means that the
logical operation may need to
be split in its responsibilities
between this, you know, some
middleware that might do some
additional filtering filtering or some
additional sorting. Yeah, that's correct.
And we're kind of, we,
we're very Heartline as part
of the development team to
not ever have features that
are like that. We're kind
of like switching the whole
like development code structure to
a like small core and
many plugins kind of thing,
because we, we found that
people really want to have
the problem solved rather than
not being told they need
to solve the problems differently.
So maybe we'll have a,
we'll have a plugin that
allows you to sort by
reduced value with the caveat
that it may break later.
But if you make the
conscious decision of like, okay,
I'm using the feature now
that I know might break,
but I'm never going to
be in the position where
it actually is going to
break. I I'm able to
use that. So we're kind
of starting to turn it
around on this one. No.
If I was going to
have some values that are,
that are dates or something,
that's a little bit more
formal than a string, and
I've got a bunch of
people, but instead of sending
in birthday, let's say one
of the records, I just
put in some nonsense, Lang
you know, something, that's not
a date. So I've got
birthdate equals Fu what is
the database going to do
with that? Is it going
to reject it? Or is
it just going to say,
Hey, I'm, I'm relaxed. I'm
chill. Yeah. I catch the
be is definitely relaxed. As
soon as it's, as long
as it's valid, Jason, it
will just accept it and
store it, stay. Now whether
the data makes sense in
your view definitions later, or
like say you're accessing a
field in a map function
that doesn't exist that may
throw an error or your
client side code Oreo, middleware,
Kurt, Lola expecting expect that
kind of data is different
matter, but then there's a
mode. I'm not a mode,
but a way in country
to be, to enforce schema
as well, which may sound
counterintuitive is one of the
whole idea of no SQL,
nothing being schema lists at
all. But you can tell
the catcher if he wants
you to figure it out,
what your data's going to
look like to reject data
that doesn't look like the
one that you've defined. So
it's kinda like my, I
love to think about it.
I'd like to think about
it as like static typing
versus dynamic typing, and then
COVID should be also allows
you to add type pins
basically. Right. Okay. That type
annotations, like I think about
when I explain TypeScript to
people, they immediately kind of
recoil and fear, like what
have you done to my
JavaScript? But then you explain,
well, it's thrown away. It's
not really used. It's just
there as a, as a,
a sifting filter to prevent
you from hurting yourself. And
then the only difference there
is that, that, that filter
in veterinary, it's a heart
filter. If you're a few
stories trying to store some
data that doesn't conform to
your specification will not get
stories. So it's a filter
on the way in. Yeah.
And if you've already got
data that's bad on the
way in, and you want
to clean it up, you
would want to pull it
back out and then put
it back in again, The
client will look at a
rejection and say, Hey, this
doesn't look right. And then
you can like, look at
the definition and change, change,
whatever needs And fix it.
So it's no, the term
knows SQL. It means that
it means like there is
no structured query language. There
is JavaScript. I'm using Jason
for my storage, but is
it really Jason, like on
the disc or is it
some magic sauce that is
not Jason For all intents
and purposes? It is Jason
on the disc, but then
it is the earning representation
of Jason cause casually he's
written in our line and
we're doing a type conversion
internally for various reasons that
pollute me at the moment.
And we make, get rid
of that eventually. But we're
storing the raw data just
on, on disc as this.
So if I have a
database, a couch DB database
of all the people in
the world, which is going
to be quite large, let's
say it takes, you know,
10 computers. Am I chopping
it up? Like the yellow
pages where I have a
through F on this computer
and L through Z on
that computer, or how is
that across multiple? How do
I do that? How do
I do something so big?
So again, it depends events.
I'd also like to think
of Crutchfield as like a
toolkit to build your own
distributed database, which is only
interesting to people who like
building distributed databases. So you
can, you can think up
your own petitioning scheme if
you want, like by my
name and then your, your
box for the letter S
needs to be really big
in certain groups of people.
But there, there, the other
way around is just lending
lending software to do the
job. There is a quite
famous dynamo paper by Amazon.
And there is an implementation
off that paper as kind
of an add on to
couch DB that allows you
to just specify, I'll say
like this time computers now
behave like the single couch
TV, and we'll do the
partitioning for you. And we're
in the process of merging
that plugin back into couch
to be proper towards the
end of the year, I
guess, where I'll be done
with that and have that
release. So you don't actually
have to worry about anything.
You're just stuck at another
machine. And then things go.
So then if who am
I asking, am I asking
some load balanced endpoint over
HTTP? Give me all of
the people who are over
20 years old In that
case, all the nodes in
that database will act as
a proxy. So if you
can ask any one node
in the K, give me,
give me that record. And
if it is that record
locally, it'll just return it.
And if it doesn't have
a proxy, the request to
the note that does have
it, because every, every node
knows where every other key
lives. Ah, interesting. Okay. So
then how does that relate
to something like a Reddis
or a memcache D it
feels like we're blurring the
lines a little bit. So
for, for mem cache, D
both resume Castillo, fundamentally single
single machine databases are programs.
And then there's some like
best practices around memcache D
how to like, get to
sharding, like Festus, like every
try and find has the
sharp key kind of thing.
So you can have three
machines that every amount of
cash. And then whenever you
have to add a mem
cash machine, you'd have to
rechart everything, because you need
a new key that distributes
it over four and so
on. So that's a bit
annoying. Red is, are working
on a cluster feature that
I haven't looked into very
detailed yet. So the, the
storage engine took coach to
be that is fundamentally single,
sober, but then the layer
on top can do the
distribution for you. Okay. And
were trying to think about
how I want to phrase
this. Do, do you think
that there is increased legitimacy
in the, in the kind
of the classic enterprise of
no SQL because of the
success of things like, like
Netflix or, I mean, is
couch to relaxed for a
big enterprise, like some boring
insurance company somewhere. So COVID
is used in the enterprise
and boring media companies, at
least that I know of,
like the BBC is using
it. And one of the
bigger German broad cultures is
using it and a bunch
of others. So there's definitely
a big names using the
software. And I think the
question in here is, does,
does it solve a particular
problem better than existing solutions?
And does it have a
low risk profile? That's the
biggest thing for the enterprise?
I guess coach to me
in particular is an Apache
project, which a lot of
people think of kind of
as a place where open
source projects go to die,
but that's kind of not
the right thing to think
about it. I think of
it as a place where
they go for legitimacy. Yeah,
exactly. That's more, more like
it, the Apache puts, puts
us the community around the
project first and visibility into
that community first. So a
big enterprise we'll know way
in advance. If something big
disruptive is going to happen
for the project, if development
is going to slow down
or a big changes are
coming, there's, everything's in the
public and guaranteed to be
in the public. There's not
one single company that ha
that is behind the development
that then suddenly says, Hey,
we're doing something different today.
Or version four breaks all
backwards compatibility. It could look
and supports for the other
one stops right now. That
kind of thing that said
though, the proper support and
the support contracts and services
kind of thing needs to
be built on top of
that by other people. So
there, there isn't that package
that you can buy as
an enterprise, but there's some
folks that, that provide that
service. So let's talk about,
about performance. One of the
things that it's kind of
touted as is it'll slow
down, but it won't fall
over. Like, you know, if
you start throwing a lot
of work at couch DB,
it will just maybe take
a little bit longer, but
it, it doesn't tip over.
Is that true? Yeah. That's
about it. My friend max
often phrases it like you
pay all the hurt with
cash should be upfront about
that. It never gets any
worse. Whereas with other databases,
they are really fast in
the beginning and then they
get slower over time. Kind
of like they were basically
operating at worst case scenario
at all times. Why is
that? Is that because of
Earl Lang just does well
on multiple cores, there's multiple,
multiple things that attribute to
it, or I think that's
definitely one part of it.
It does it doesn't optimize
for the single request performance,
like I mentioned earlier, but
for overall system throughput and
making sure you have always
like saturated IO and be
able to accept all the
incoming requests as sockets and
that kind of stuff. And
if everything takes a little
longer, that's no problem. But
then if there's like a
spike of 10,000 requests coming
in, it'll just handle that
gracefully. And it's really hard
to build that into other
languages to deal with these
spikes really easily. Don't big
databases fall over when it
comes to things like contention
where, you know, everyone's trying
to get to the same
page at the same time.
And that's, that's a computer
science problem, not necessarily a
language or programming language problem.
Why has custody be different?
Well, so in the, in
the getting to the same
record kind of scenario would
do the proper computer science
thing and then leave it
to a caching system that
will be in front of
catcher, which is one of
the beauties of using HTTP
as a protocol. We can
just use any of the
proxies that are available for
that. And they all work
really nicely. So we just
don't solve the problem. No,
that's interesting. Let me interrupt
you before you forget before
I forget. So you're saying
that because HTTP is the
transport, you, you're not just
using the URL style, you're
not just using HTTP verbs,
but other things he tags
and not modified and things
like that. That's meaningful. Well,
yeah, that's correct. Okay. That's
a really important point for
people to understand. Yeah. And
there's one of the neat
neater features of catch TV
as a, as a real
time feed of stuff that
happens in the database. So
we can have like a
live update of Cassius invalidate
that key right now, because
it's not valid anymore. So
we can for hot data,
we can preemptively updated for
the cash, or just at
least tell the calf she
can evict that particular keynote.
What about like big bulk
document inserts? Is this something
that's just for little records
and stuff, or if I
was going to go and
do, you know, big bunches
of information, or maybe throw
in some binaries and pictures
and some PDFs and things
like that. All right, cool.
That's two questions. One, the
bulk insertion is a feature
we have just like a
post endpoint that just takes
a specific piece structured, Jason,
that isn't standard or anything,
but it's very trivial. It's
just a list of documents
basically. And you can throw
it at couch to me
and we'll just start in
bulk. And then we'll be
faster than like starting every
one, every single one on
their own. And the other
question was binary data catch
to be, has this idea
of attachments. And if you've
ever done that attachments and
email, which everybody has, you
already know how it works.
And so the list of
keys or key value pairs
attached to a document that
is just a name and
some typing involved, and you
can have as many of
you as you, as you
like, There's, there's some other
databases in the world that
also have the name couch.
And I don't understand you.
There was, there was one
couch DB, and then there's
couch base. These are different
things. Is that Right? That
is correct. And it's a
bit of an unfortunate history,
but let me explain. Couchbase
came out of a merger
for a company that was
doing catch to be development
called  and the company
that was doing memcache Membase,
he kind of things called
Membase and they merged into
a thing called church base
and the name of the
company and the, the product
after it. And members is
actually, we talked about memcache
earlier is the codifications of
best practices for memcache servers.
So it just implements a
sharding, a scenario where you
don't have to recharge every
time you add a new
system, or can you machine
to the whole cluster. And
it does that very well.
It also adds persistence. So
when you lose a machine
and then it restarts, maybe
you don't have to load
the data from all the
other machines. A memory is
if you're in a failure
scenario, that's a lot of
arrows going on. You don't
want to have extra load
repopulating in your notes. So
you can just read from
this and it's it's online
again. And it also allows
you to store more data
than you have a memory
available for. And at some
point they were using SQL
Lite as the backend storage,
and they thought that's not
very flexible because they couldn't,
it was working very well
as a key value store,
but not for dynamic queries
on the things that we're
doing. And they thought
was the better backend for
it. So these companies merged
the products. How should it
be like to think ology
is now behind Couchbase, but
the thing that are defining
for, for coach to be
the, the HTTP storage and
the multi-master replication feature, which
I'd like to talk about
a bit in a second
are, are part of Couchbase
as is, which is, which
adds to the confusion to,
well, to save their, save
their owner. Couchbase did plan
to make it look like
a couch to, but engineering
reality made it not work
out that way. So they
focused on the thing that
they could ship in time
to make the customers happy,
which is catching me in
the backend Membase in the
front, but they don't share
any code. There's some code
that like Couchbase is also
can online and see hybrid
all data's done and see
an old management is done
an airline. So that's some
code that is shared. And,
but ultimately there are different
systems. I see. And they
just, they're both named couch
and that's unfortunate, but there
are different things. Yeah. That's
a historic historic accident. And
then what was the other
thing that you said that
you wanted to make sure
we touched on The replication
feature? If there's there's it's
if people ask what's the
one, like, why would you
use couch? And there's the
one defining feature that everybody
agrees is the one thing
that is cut to be
is for, we called it
replication. Other people know the
same thing as sync and
well, you know, database replication
from other databases, but ours
is a little bit different
than I kinda think of
it as like the, the
get the databases does what
it does for your application
data. And not in the
sense that you have like
a lot of diffing going
on and merging stuff, but
more, I have a local
copy of my data, and
I want to show you
what I have, and then
I can replicate it to
you. And now you have
the full set of data
as well, and you can
look at it and you'll
find a bunch of issues
with it and you can
fix it. And then I
replicated your changes back, but
you also showed it to
your friend and they found
a bunch of issues or
edit a bit of data
and they can get both
your stuff back into my
copy. And we think it's
all good. I can push
it to a live server.
And then my continued continuous
integration will pick it up
and check all the data
again, without all our automated
tests. And when that's all,
okay, push it to the
production system. Like kind of
how you're thinking about doing
code deployment with get, but
for your application, data can
live everywhere and that's pretty
cool and fairly unique to,
to catch DV. That is
his automatic kind of imposed
workflow versus is, are those
methods that I call or
how do I make that
happen? Oh, so the fundamental
procedure, as you have very
limited, it's just replicate this
database to another database and
this database can be a
local or remote one, or
the targeted one can also
be local or remote one.
So it can go either
way, whichever way you want,
and then whatever management you
want on top of like
automation automatically puts everything. There's
some, some hooks for that,
but usually you script that
yourself And do I just
declare one authoritative? Cause I
feel like it, like, you
know, Linus owns this, get
one, get repository. Cause he's
Linus. Cause we said so.
Or is there a formalization
of who's on top? Nope.
There is that's ad hoc.
Like whatever you want to
be the master at semester
or there's no master, if
you want that. Very cool.
Right. So people can go
up to guide dot couch,
db.org. And is the whole
book up there, the definitive
guide. Yeah. That was a
very sweet deal that really
allowed us to do. We
were writing the, to documentation
anyway, and we told them
like, we're not coming right
at twice, so you better
let us opensource it. And
they're like, yeah, that's cool.
And we're like, Oh my
God, it works cool. So
we, the book is open
source, the whole book. It's
a, it's a work in
progress. You've got English, German,
French, Spanish. You've got an
English draft that's being worked
on and people can submit
corrections as well. If they
find any problems. Yeah. It's
all good help. You can
forget. It's going to be
part of the official catch
to be documentation too. So
a lot more people can
look at it as well.
And then some new new
ideas or error corrections. And
then every like every major,
what version, Alrighty, we'll just
take a cut, then print
a book or promote an
ebook that they can sell
them. And a lot of
the people who are listening
to the show are.net people
or windows people. Can we
use couch DB on windows?
Yeah, of course. RN support
for windows is very, very
good and can be supported
as well. So we ship
windows binary with every release.
You can just, don't like,
it's an installer thing and
you can just double click
and install. It just runs
as a windows service and
does its thing. Yeah. Or
you can be in there's
some configuration there, but I
think the minimum thing I
want to do is run
it as a service. I
see. Very cool. And it
looks like there's lots of
public C-sharp libraries. If I,
if I don't want to
just talk to it myself,
there's relax and there's sharp
couch and things like that.
But like you said, I
can just talk to this
with an HTTP client and
build my own wrappers, whatever
it looks like my data.
Okay. Very cool. Well, thanks
so much for chatting with
me today. I really Well,
thanks for having me. This
was fun. I'll put up
all of the links to
couch DB and the guide
up on the show notes.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week.